How to Make our Favorite Homemade Falafel Recipe

Before we started experimenting with homemade falafel, I thought it would be on the difficult side of things, but let me tell you, falafel is so easy to make!
 The full recipe, which has been inspired by some seriously amazing chefs including, Yotam Ottolenghi, Sami Tamimiwith, Sharon Salloum, and J. Kenji López-Alt
  of Serious Eats, but here are the basic steps we follow for making amazing falafel at home:

Step 1, Soak dried chickpeas: This step is simple. Add dried chickpeas (garbanzo beans) to a large bowl and cover by quite a few inches of water. Set the bowl 
aside and let the beans rehydrate until they triple in size. This takes a while, so I do this the night before I plan to make falafel. I’ve also done this two 
days in advance, drained the beans, and then kept them covered in the fridge. [While we do not cook these beans until they are in the falafel mix, we do have 
a full tutorial for soaking and cooking dried chickpeas if you are interested.]

Step 2, Process all falafel ingredients in a food processor: Roughly chop the onion/scallions, and then add them to the food processor with the chickpeas,
 garlic, herbs, spices, salt, and pepper. Then pulse until the mixture is chopped small, but before it is smooth — see our video and photos for reference.
Falafel Ingredients
Falafel Mix

Step 3: Cover the falafel mix and refrigerate for 15 minutes: Other recipes call for chilling the falafel mix for 2 hours, since we aren’t using canned 
chickpeas or flour in our recipe, we only need 15 minutes of chill time (although, you can leave it in the fridge for much longer if that works better 
with your schedule).

Step 4, Form balls from the falafel mix: This recipe makes about 18 falafel, so since it’s just the two of us, I usually form half of the mix into balls
 and then refrigerate the rest for the next day. The mixture might seem like it wants to fall apart, but trust us, it won’t. Just scoop 1 1/2 tablespoons
  or so of the mix and press it into a ball or oblong shape with the palms of your hands (it’s a little messy, but easy).

Step 5, Cook the falafel: For the most authentic and crispy falafel, we fry the falafel in about 3/4 inch of oil. I’m not usually one to fry foods in my
 kitchen, but when it comes to falafel, it’s 100% worth it! It’s also not as difficult or messy as many make it seem. I have provided tips for baking and 
 pan-frying falafel below, but remember, for the best falafel, frying is the answer.

When the falafel are cooked, we immediately sprinkle a little extra salt over them and serve. You want to eat falafel right away since it’s at it’s best 
right out of the oil.